add quickstart page for vertex ai workbench and images (#155)
Teradata/quickstarts: modules/vantagecloud-lake/pages/vantagecloud-lake-demo-jupyter-google-cloud-vertex-ai.adoc

:dir: vantage-lake-demo-jupyter-google-cloud-vertex-ai

== Overview
This quickstart explains how to run https://github.com/Teradata/lake-demos[Teradata Jupyter Notebook Demos for Vantage Cloud Lake] on Vertex AI, the AI/ML platform for Google Cloud. 

== Prerequisites
* Teradata modules for Jupyter **Linux desktop version** (download https://downloads.teradata.com/download/tools/vantage-modules-for-jupyter[here], registration required)
* Google Cloud account with https://console.cloud.google.com/flows/enableapi?apiid=notebooks.googleapis.com,aiplatform.googleapis.com&redirect=https://console.cloud.google.com&_ga=2.180323111.284679914.1706204112-1996764819.1705688373[Vertex AI and Notebooks API] enabled
* Google cloud storage to store startup scripts and Teradata Jupyter extension package
* https://quickstarts.teradata.com/getting-started-with-vantagecloud-lake.html[Access to a VantageCloud Lake environment]

== Vertex AI Google Cloud environment setup

> When we create a new notebook instance, we can specify a startup script. This script, which runs only once after instance creation, will install the Teradata Jupyter extension package and clone a GitHub repository into the new user-managed notebooks instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you create a new notebook instance, you can specify a startup script. This script, which runs only once after instance creation, will install the Teradata Jupyter extension package and clone a GitHub repository into the new user-managed notebooks instance.
```

> * 1. Download Teradata Jupyter extensions package

Reviewer: We should either use bullet point lists or numbered lists, but not both at the same time :). If it's a step by step procedure, it's best to use a numbered list.

- Visit https://downloads.teradata.com/download/tools/vantage-modules-for-jupyter[Vantage Modules for Jupyter page]
- Sign in and download the Teradata Linux version of the package.

* 2. Create Google Cloud Storage Bucket 

>      - Create a bucket with a name relevant to the project (e.g., teradata_jupyter). 

Reviewer: We should let the reader know that the bucket name must be globally unique. `teradata_jupyter` will work only for the first user :).

image::{dir}/bucket.png[New bucket,align="center" width=75%]

* 3. Upload the unizzped Jupyter extension package to your Google Cloud Storage bucket as a file.

> * 4. Write the following startup script and save it as `startup.sh`to your local machine. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* 4. Write the following startup script and save it as `startup.sh` to your local machine. 
```

image::{dir}/startupscript.png[select startup script,align="center" width=75%]

* 4. Select Create to initiate the notebook. It may take a few minutes for the notebook creation process to complete. When it is done, click on OPEN JUPYTERLAB. 

image::{dir}/activenotebook.png[active notebook,align="center" width=75%]

* On JupyterLab open a notebook with a Python kernel and run the following command for finding your notebook instance IP address.

image::{dir}/python3.png[python3 kernel,align="center" width=75%]

** We will whitelist this IP in your VantageCloud Lake environment in order to allow the connection.
** This is for purposes of this guide and the notebooks demos. For production environments, a configuration of VPCs, Subnets and Security Groups might need to be configured and whitelisted.

[source, python, role="content-editable"]
----
import requests
def get_public_ip():
    try:
        response = requests.get('https://api.ipify.org')
        return response.text
    except requests.RequestException as e:
        return "Error: " + str(e)
my_public_ip = get_public_ip()
print("My Public IP is:", my_public_ip)

> ----

Reviewer: This section feels a bit out of order. We say to run a snippet, then offer 2 more bullet points and then the snippet. Perhaps the bullet points should become a callout?

* In the VantageCloud Lake environment, under settings, add the IP of your notebook instance

image::vantagecloud-lake-demo-jupyter-sagemaker/sagemaker-lake.PNG[Initiate JupyterLab,align="center" width=75%]

== Edit vars.json
Navigate into the `lake-demos` directory in your notebook. 

image::{dir}/notebooklauncher.png[notebook launcher,align="center" width=75%]

Right click on vars.json to open the file with editor. 

image::{dir}/openvars.png[vars.json,align="center" width=75%]

Edit the *https://github.com/Teradata/lake-demos/blob/main/vars.json[vars.json file]* file to include the required credentials to run the demos +

[cols="1,1"]
|====
| *Variable* | *Value*
| *"host"* 
| Public IP value from your VantageCloud Lake environment
| *"UES_URI"* 
| Open Analytics from your VantageCloud Lake environment
| *"dbc"*
| The master password of your VantageCloud Lake environment.
|====

To retrieve a Public IP address and Open Analytics Endpoint follow these https://quickstarts.teradata.com/vantagecloud-lake/vantagecloud-lake-demo-jupyter-docker.html#_create_vantagecloud_lake_environment[instructions].

====
IMPORTANT: Change passwords in the vars.json file.

> ====

Reviewer: The callout doesn't explain to the users why they should do it. The explanation comes later. It feels out of order to me. When you ask somebody to do something, it's best to give them the reason right away.

# Clone the Teradata lake-demos repository
su - jupyter -c "git clone https://github.com/Teradata/lake-demos.git"
----
* Upload this script to your Google Cloud storage bucket as a file

image::{dir}/upload.png[files uploaded to bucket,align="center" width=75%]

=== Initiating a user managed notebook instance

* Access Vertex AI Workbench

- Return to Vertex AI Workbench in Google Cloud console.
- Create a new User-Managed Notebook via Advanced Options or directly at https://notebook.new/.

* Under Details, name your notebook, select your region and select continue.

image::{dir}/detailsenv.png[notebook env details,align="center" width=75%]

* Under Environment select **Browse** to select your startup.sh script from your Google Cloud Bucket.

image::{dir}/startupscript.png[select startup script,align="center" width=75%]

* Select Create to initiate the notebook. It may take a few minutes for the notebook creation process to complete. When it is done, click on OPEN JUPYTERLAB. 

image::{dir}/activenotebook.png[active notebook,align="center" width=75%]

[IMPORTANT]
====

> We will whitelist this IP in your VantageCloud Lake environment in order to allow the connection. This is for purposes of this guide and the notebooks demos. For production environments, a configuration of VPCs, Subnets and Security Groups might need to be configured and whitelisted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will have to whitelist this IP in your VantageCloud Lake environment to allow the connection. This solution is appropriate in a trial environment. For production environments, a configuration of VPCs, Subnets, and Security Groups might need to be configured and whitelisted.
```
